# Basic outputs

The main entry points to outputs are `Write` and `WriteLine`.

They take one or multiple parameters of type `ColoredOutput` which enables to customize each string.

## ColoredOutput

A `ColoredOutput` is a wrapper around a `string` that also stored 2 `ConsoleColor`s, one for foreground, and one for background.

It can be created using extension methods or the constructor, but the best way to use it is with implicit converters.

By default any string can be implicitly converter to a `ColoredOutput` with the default colors of `System.Console`, but to further ease the usage, another type is used: `Color`

### Color

`Color` is a very simple type, which is a very simple wrapper around `ConsoleColor` and is implicitly converter to `ConsoleColor`, each `ConsoleColor` value has a corresponding static field in `Color`, i.e `Color.Red`. `Color` was required to allow using special operators to define the `ColoredOutput`. But also as benefit it shorten the amount of code needed to be written.

Now `OutputColor` can be represented as mathematical equation in which `string * foreground / background` results in the string wrapped as a `ColoredOutput` with a selected foreground and background. It requires using the `Color` fields for this to work properly. Some examples:

```csharp
WriteLine("Test" * Color.Red / Color.Blue); // Red foreground and blue background
WriteLine("Test" * Color.Red); // Red foreground and default background (black)
WriteLine("Test" / Color.Blue); // Blue background and default foreground (gray)
```

So you can see that each part of the equation (aside from the string) can be eliminated to use the defaults. This enables very fluid and intuitive usage, but one with minimal performance overhead.

`Write` and `WriteLine` have overloads of with up to 6 `ColoredOutput` parameters, before defaulting to the `params` overload, since `ColoredOutput` is a struct, this enables most of not all usual usage scenarios to avoid allocating an array on the heap. Alternatively, perhaps you could optimize by using a `ReadOnlySpan<ColoredOutput>` overload, which the `params` one is also using internally.
