# Advanced Options

## Menus

The library support multiple advanced output/input methods that could be categorized as menus.

1. A `Selection` is a way to display a title and a list of choices, each choice will be automatically indexed, The user will be prompted to select by index, the choice will be validated, and the corresponding `string` from the choices will be returned, or an empty string if the choice was invalid.
2. A `MultiSelection` is similar to `Selection` but enables the user to input multiple indexes as choices (separated by a space), this will be similarly validated, and will return an array of the corresponding `string`s or an empty array if any of the choices was invalid.
3. A `TreeMenu` is a more advanced selection, which enables selecting nested (level 2 choices), the first level will be "main", and second "sub", the tree will display indexed main options, where to the side of each options, there will be indexed corresponding sub-choices. The user will be prompted to enter both indexes separated by space, i.e "1 3", and a tuple of the strings will be returned, in this function, invalid choice in either will throw an exception.
4. A `Table` Will nicely format items, by rows and columns, it requires a collection of headers, and a `ReadOnlySpan<collection>` for the items corresponding to each row, it will validate that the number of collections is equal to the number of headers.

## Dynamic Outputs - Independent

Independent dynamic outputs are forms of non-static outputs that don't depend on specific changing parameters.

1. `OverrideCurrentLine` is a function you can call over and over again and will override the output of the previous line with the new one, always remaining on the same line. Other outputs after it, will take its place. This could be used for example to show `IProgress<string>`.
2. `TypeWrite` and `TypeWriteLine` write the output with a type writer effect (i.e character by character) with a customizable delay (default = 200ms);

## Dynamic Outputs - Dependent

Dependent dynamic outputs are non-static outputs that depend on some state from the parameters

### IndeterminateProgressBar

`IndeterminateProgressBar` is class that can be instantiated and customized with its properties, its main methods are 2 overloads of `RunAsync`, one of `Task` and the other `Task<T>`, when the methods are called, they will render a progress bar that shows that the application is doing some work, optionally it can display elapsed time and a header and more. if the `Task` or `Task<T>` wasn't started before the method call, it will be started inside.

### ProgressBar

`ProgressBar` is also a class that can instantiated and customized with properties such as progress character, colors and so on and forth. Unlike the `RunAsync` method of `IndeterminateProgressBar`, its `Update` methods, don't run continuously, rather they render a single time and depend on a `percentage` which can be `int` or `double`, they are designed to be called each time the `percentage` is changed. The 3 overloads gives the user more options to customize each iteration.

It is very beneficial to instantiate the classes of `IndeterminateProgressBar` and `ProgressBar` as close to their usage as possible, this is because upon instantiation they register information they use to render such as the buffer width, The more time between the instantiation and usage, the more time will be left for the user to actually resize the terminal, thus causing the output to look sub-par.

Both classes can also be used to change some customization elements mid-run via the properties, this allows to further customize to get the exact functionality you want.

* Note specific to `ProgressBar`: by making the update method to be called manually, this gives the power of configuration back to the user, however this also means you need to be somewhat careful with it, the `Update` method does non-trivial or somewhat complex operations with the output, and if it is called very frequently, the terminal may not be able to stay synchronized and the output will be bugged, some things may render out of place, or overriding others in unexpected ways, and generally not look good. To reduce the change of this happening, consider in someway implementing a method for reducing the amount of `Update` calls, such as for example, using a timestamp to ensure it is only called once every x ms.
